ENGLISH

VISUAL AND PERFORMING ARTS TEACHER - ADEN, YEMEN

Department: Education
Area: Education
Location: Aden, Yemen
Supervisor: Education Officer
Contract: Fixed term (with possibility of extension)
Status: Full-Time
Compensation: 400 USD Monthly
Job description

Still I Rise is an international NGO with a humanitarian mission to provide protection and quality education to refugee and displaced youth. We are opening our latest Academy in Aden, Yemen. Here, we are passionately engaged in one of the world’s most ambitious, unique and exciting educational projects: to offer the very highest quality of schooling experience to internally displaced and refugee youth in Yemen.

We are now seeking an open-minded, thoughtful and creative visual and performing arts teacher to join our team. You will inspire and educate children using modern, student-centered techniques. To support you, we offer extensive professional development in a wide range of skills.

We hire proactive educators who demonstrate genuine care for each child, a hunger to offer them the best, and an infectious passion for the curricular and extracurricular activities they lead.

If you are a qualified teacher and this sounds like a challenge which suits you, we warmly invite you to apply!

KEY RESPONSIBILITIES:

Plan, deliver and facilitate dynamic, active, and creative visual and performing arts lessons for diverse classes of students aged 10-15. Create enhanced opportunities for real-life applications of concepts using available resources and project based learning.
Review and monitor the progress of all students and identify their individual learning needs. Differentiate instruction to meet those needs of the students, providing extra support to those students who are below grade level.
Sensitively and appropriately provide pastoral care to our students from disadvantaged backgrounds. Handle urgent situations with consummate professionalism and in accordance with our Discipline Policy and Safeguarding Policy, utilizing the school’s support network as necessary.
Conduct regular formative and summative assessments, recording and reporting grades and performance.
Attend and participate in regular professional development activities.
Help our school excel with your participation and leadership in community engagement, competitions, school trips and other activities.
Contribute to the development and leadership of our extracurricular programmes.
Under the supervision of the Education Officer, provide feedback on quality and wellbeing to ensure programmes are designed, implemented, monitored, and evaluated to maximize positive impact on vulnerable children.
ESSENTIAL CRITERIA

Be ambitious, brave and caring: the three core values of our school.
Academic or Professional Certificates;
Completion of Background check;
Bachelor’s degree in arts, Education or related field or equivalent training and experience;
At least two years of teaching experience;
Competent ICT skills;
Excellent interpersonal, communication and organisational skills;
Ability to mentor students on a daily basis;
Resilience in a challenging and changing environment;
The curiosity and willingness to develop and practice modern teaching techniques;
Determined team player.
DESIRABLE CRITERIA

Experience teaching remedial-level students
Experience working with Internally Displaced People
Experience working with vulnerable people
Experience in Child Safeguarding and Protection
