EMERGENCY is an international non-governmental organization, established in 1994 to provide free, high-quality medical and surgical care to victims of war, landmines and poverty, alongside promoting a culture of peace, solidarity and respect for human rights. EMERGENCY has treated over 11 million patients since its inception. The organization is currently active in Afghanistan, Iraq, Italy, Sierra Leone, Sudan and Uganda. EMERGENCY operates based on the premise that access to high-quality healthcare is a fundamental human right. The Salam Centre for Cardiac Surgery, in Khartoum, Soba Hilla, offers high quality and free of charge surgical care to children and adults suffering from acquired or congenital heart diseases.

Reporting to: Physio Team Leader & Head Nurse

Scope of the position:

The Physiotherapist assists patients providing rehabilitative counselling and care pre and post-surgery. He/she is expected to know and apply Emergency protocols and guidelines.

Tasks and responsibilities:

Physiotherapist’s tasks and responsibilities include - but are not limited to - the ones listed below:

Promoting an environment that enables patient’s safety, independence, quality of life, and health implementing all necessary actions such as infection control practices, bed sores prevention practices and maintaining high level of hygiene also ensuring physio material are properly stored and cleaned;
Undertaking a comprehensive and accurate assessment of patients in a variety of settings and a specific chest assessment;
Providing physio treatments to achieve identified outcomes and monitoring patients’ condition (both for in patients and out patients if needed);
Performing all the tasks related to the Physio Competence Framework, e.g. 6 minutes test, chest treatments and mobilization techniques;
Ensuring documentation/record keeping is accurate and physio chart is properly filled, maintaining confidentially of information
Providing pre-op counselling within the physio skill framework to all patients
Establishing, maintaining and concluding therapeutic interpersonal relationships with patient
Organizing daily group activities and aerobic training for autonomous patients
Collaborating with colleagues and members of the health care team (HCT) to facilitate care ensuring proper cooperation with other professional
Following the duty roasters and the organizational rules shared by the Team Leaders with particular focus on the respect of the shifts and the fulfilment of all the handover activities
Take part to all the training activities according to the training plan or to the guidelines given by the Team Leader/Head Nurse
Education & Required Skills

Bachelor Degree in Physiotherapy.

Good English knowledge and ability to work in an international Environment

Good communication skills and the ability to deal with emotionally charged and pressured situations is essential.

