Médecins Sans Frontières, founded in 1971, is an international medical humanitarian organization that provides emergency medical assistance to people affected by conflict, epidemics, disasters or exclusion from health care. Our teams are made up of tens of thousands of medical professionals, logistics, administrative and various other professions, all guided by our medical ethics and our principles of impartiality, independence and neutrality.

MSF WaCA, created in 2019, is the first MSF headquarters in Africa, and responds to the desire to reinvent the MSF movement after 50 years of humanitarian actions in the world, for more access to care, more reactivity and proactivity for greater medical coverage of affected populations in the world.

Why join us?

You are preparing to become a member of the MSF family, with over 50 years of emergency medical action that earned the Nobel Peace Prize in 1999.

We are an inclusive organization that considers social and professional well-being a right for all and provides an environment that takes into account the diversity of each member.

MSF WaCA claims an African anchorage that considers the local expertise with which it contributes in the implementation of its activities and makes each member, a key actor of the new dynamics of the humanitarian action in the world.

We Are Looking for: LEGAL OFFICER

Department: General Directorate

Direct Manager: General Director

Functional Manager: Intersectional Legal Department, 2 Unit Managers (Unit on HR and Duty of Care and Unit on Legal and Administrative Framework of Missions)

Working %: 100%

Position Based in: Based in Abidjan with recurring field mobility and visits in Europa

Mobility: All WaCA’s Interventions Zones

Type of Contract: Fixed-Term Renewable

Position to be filled: 1st June 2024

Objectives

Provide general legal support for the creation of the WaCA entity, as well as operations, in the following areas:

- Social law and duty of care

- Tax Law

- Contracts law

- Corporate law

- Administrative procedures applicable to deploy operations (immigration, custom, medical authorizations…)

- Brand and domain names

- Insurance

- Any other issue that generating administrative constraints for MSF WaCA

Main responsibilities

He/she will be in charge of the following responsibilities:

- Identify legal issues, risks and questions facing MSF WACA and propose mitigation/contigency measures

- Support MSF WaCA in identifying the applicable legal framework and anticipating related constraints/blockages

- Legal Responsibility: Provide advice, including in litigation

- Select external lawyers and establish a collaboration

- Develop, update, and contribute to internal training

- Build an internal database

- Collect the legislative texts of the countries of the region and set up a legal monitoring system

- Liaise with the intersection legal department and disseminate appropriate tools

Job requirements
Education

Master 2 degree in private or comparative law
Competencies

Rigor, clarity and adaptability to different legal systems
Ability to research, analyze and write.
Ability to translate legal information into understandable language for operations
Autonomy, solution-oriented and strength of proposal.
Human and relational skills

Commitment to MSF principles
Cultural sensitivity
Teamwork and cooperation
Professional experience required

Minimum 3 years of professional experience in a law firm or legal department
Experience at the international level
Experience in MSF or in the humanitarian sector is an asset

Languages Skills

Working proficiency in English and French
Computer Skills

MS Office suite (mainly MS Word, Excel and Powerpoint)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

MSF offers equal recruitment and development opportunities without any form of discrimination based on gender, religion, sexual orientation, ethnicity, geographical origin, physical disability or any other discriminatory ground.

Female candidates who meet the requirements are strongly encouraged to apply.

N.B.: This job description provides a framework for the main responsibilities and primary activities of the position. It is not exhaustive. Therefore, the responsibilities and activities of the position may differ from those described in this job description due to organizational and operational needs.

Deadline: May, 15th 2024 18:00 GMT
Only shortlisted candidates will be contacted.

