Context

Terre des hommes Foundation is an independent, neutral, and impartial Swiss organization founded in 1960, dedicated to bringing about significant and lasting change in the lives of children and young people, especially those most at risk. Tdh ensures their well-being and the effective implementation of their rights as defined in the Convention on the Child's Rights and other human rights instruments. To make a difference, Tdh focus our efforts on maternal and child health, children and young people in migration situations, and access to justice. Tdh promotes the active participation of children and young people to empower them. We advocate for their rights and support them in expressing their needs and interests. Tdh works in fragile contexts and conflict zones, as well as in more stable environments.

Tdh is present in Kenya since 2011. Currently, Tdh is providing protection and health/nutrition services for children and families affected by migration, drought and poverty in Korogocho informal settlement in Nairobi, in Garissa County, in Dadaab and Kakuma refugee camps, Kalobeyei settlement and host communities .

In Garissa County, Tdh supports the Ministry of Health in providing integrated nutrition and protection services to severe malnourished children and pregnant and lactating women. In Korogocho informal settlements, Tdh implements early child development activities and child protection activities with a strong community-based approach aiming at decreasing violence against children and strengthening child protection mechanisms. The intervention in Dadaab and Kakuma refugee camps, Kalobeyei settlement and host communities is focused on prevention and response to child protection needs while strengthening protection community-based mechanisms in the refugee operation and its host communities.

Specific Responsibilities

In all project sites:

PROCUREMENT MANAGEMENT

Ensure the respect of Tdh and donor purchase procedures;
Identify and plan the delegation’s procurement in collaboration with log/admin staff and Project Managers.
Ensure respect of the quality of the purchase and the delivery deadlines;
Follow up the order/purchase until delivery;
Ensure regular purchases follow up in close collaboration with the Administration Department for down payments and monthly budget follow up.
Ensure preparation of weekly procurement follow up updates according to the format available at the delegation
STOCKS MANAGEMENT

Ensure the respect of Tdh’s and donor stock management procedure;
Manage regular inventory (monthly, quarterly, yearly) for the different items stored in the delegation;
Plan the stock supplying according to local constraints;
In charge of the warehouse management and control system;
Ensure security and the follow up of the equipment used on the delegation (identification, inventory, affectation);
Ensure the security and the follow up of the communication and IT equipment (and supplies) on the delegation (identification, inventory, affectation);
FLEET MANAGEMENT

Ensure the respect of Tdh and donor vehicle management procedure;
Supervise the general follow up of the delegation vehicle (consummation checks, movement planning, vehicle rental contracts, etc.)
Ensure a regular maintenance on the different vehicle of the delegation, setup appropriate maintenance contract with supplier or ensure an appropriate repair process with local technicians;
Handle transport contract negotiation with suppliers and follow up;
Define the more relevant means of transport for goods delivery and process the administrative formalities related to (by road, by plane, by boat, etc.) national, regional and international in a rapidly shifting context
MOVEMENT MANAGEMENT

Ensure smooth and transparent running of movement with necessary approval and recording
SECURITY MANAGEMENT

Update and ensure the respect of the security guideline adopted on the delegation, the good functioning of the relative tools and process and the correct use and acknowledge from all the members of the delegation (national & international staff) in close links with Head of Delegation;
Manage security guidelines updates, geopolitical follow up, incident reports and analysis;
Ensure that every single incident is reported as fast as possible to the Head of Delegation;
Keep informed of security trends
FIELD SUPPORT

maintain management routine system (meetings, reports, situation points, etc.) to ensure a smooth diffusion of relevant information (logistics) at delegation level;
Manage logistics support in collaboration with logisticians and advice and interact specifically with the Project team on regular basis.
Frequent movements have to be expected between the different bases if security and administrative constraint allows;
Ensure a pro-active link between the field (needs) and logistics team (needs & support) and play a continuous mediating role;
PREMISES

Ensure good functioning of the all sites equipment and maintenance (computers, printers, photocopiers, fridges, generators, etc.).
Searches for adequate premises when required
Organises moves when required
ASSETS

Maintains assets in good conditions
Disposes of assets when required
Maintains sate of the art records for assets
TEAM MANAGEMENT

ensure strict application and respect of the Internal Regulation by your related staff
support and advise your team in the implementation of their action plans;
ensure feedback towards team about issues potentially raised by them;
ensure a good communication – coordination – information level of each member of the team through regular coordination meetings (or other if needed);
ensure conflict resolution (personal and professional) in team
propose relevant needed adaptation to the organisational chart of the delegation and contribute to its implementation (job descriptions, etc.),
You support your staff in their management duty: coordination meetings, individual interviews, etc.
REPORTING

Centralize all logistics information available on the delegation and consolidate a monthly report (into the proper reporting form) to be delivered to the Head of Delegation.
Prepare a weekly report to be delivered to the Head of Delegation.
Provide regular reporting on your activities to the Head of Delegation.
REPRESENTATION

You participate actively to logistics and information meetings with peer organisations;
Maintain positive relations with TDH’s partners and potential partners
OTHER:

Any other duty here by assigned by the Head of Delegation.
REQUIREMENTS

A bachelor’s degree in logistics
A minimum of 5 years in a similar position within an NGO
Qualifications in security management or equivalent experience
IT: knowledge of computer maintenance is an asset
Experience in capacity building management is a strong asset
English mandatory (oral and written)
Ability to work under pressure with a great level of personal organization
Sense of Diplomacy and patience
Ability to do critical analyse with limited information
A results-driven mindset.
Other :

Abuse Prevention Policy - Operational Risk Management

Commit to respect Tdh Risk Management Policies including: Child Safeguarding Policy, Safety and Security Policy and Anti-Fraud/Corruption Policy, Whistle Blowing Policy
Commit to ensure the best implementation possible of the Tdh Risk Management Policies
Commit to inform supervisors and to deal with any cases, allegations, or possibility of transgression, even potential, of the Tdh Risk Management Policies.
