SCOPE OF WORK:

The IRC’s Home Study and Post-Release Services (HSPRS) for unaccompanied children in the U.S. is growing from six current IRC offices to more than 17 offices throughout the US. This is a national, multi-million-dollar project with ambitious delivery goals in a short time frame. This position is part of an anticipated 36-month contract.

The goals of the Home-Study Post Release Services Program (HS/PRS) are to:

Assess the safety and suitability of a sponsor before an unaccompanied child is released from custody into a sponsor’s care (Home Study)
Provide case management support via remote and / or conducting in-home visits to ensure the continued safety and stability of children in sponsor’s homes and linking children to resources in the community (Post Release Services).
The Casework Supervisor, HSPRS provides trauma-informed and supportive supervision within the HSPRS program to Caseworkers (Level 1 and Senior Caseworkers (Level 2), as well advises Crisis Case Managers (Level 3). Specifically, the Casework Supervisor ensures onboarding and orientation to the position have been completed; provides weekly supervision; monitors service provision and case notes to ensure quality and adherence to best practices; ensures that appropriate staff are notified of cases of concern within a timely manner; writes monthly reports; monitors data; and ensures all staff are updated on changing policies, procedures and regulations that may impact their work, and convenes regular staff meetings. The Casework Supervisor, HSPRS helps ensure that services delivered by staff are of quality and in the best interest of the child, and that the number of children and families receiving services meet contractual requirements.

Major Responsibilities include but are not limited to:

Supervise between four and six staff Caseworkers (Level 1) and Snr. Caseworkers (Level 2).
Advise as appropriate Crisis Case Managers (Level 3).
Monitor case management service provision including reviewing documentation for accuracy and timeliness, ensuring number of cases falls within established guidelines, and that policies and procedures are being followed.
Act as a point of escalation for staff with complex cases, cases of concern, and client crisis. This includes liaising with child welfare and law enforcement agencies, as needed.
Ensure case managers have been appropriately onboarded and oriented to their position and provide regular professional development in case work and client facing skills to staff.
Monitor data and writes monthly reports to ensure the Regional Manager has a good understanding of numbers served, cases of concern, trends, challenges, opportunities, and any other issues of note.
Act as a community liaison to build a durable referral network for services and supports.
Works to create a sense of teamwork even when staff are working remotely in different geographic areas.
Build and maintain relationships with community services providers in relevant areas.
Maintain accurate records in electronic case files and required databases.
Submit required reports and documentation in a timely manner.
Use a child centered, developmentally appropriate and trauma-informed approach to address the needs and concerns of children and sponsors.
Maintain a strong understanding of trauma-informed principles and approaches, protection and safeguarding, and mandatory reporting.
Ensure the confidentiality of children and their cases.
Job Requirements include but are not limited to:

Must possess a master’s degree in the behavioral sciences, human services or social services field; or a Bachelor’s Degree plus at least three years of progressive employment experience that demonstrates supervisory and case management experience.
Minimum of one year of supervisory experience, including program oversight, review and monitoring of cases, and compliance with contractual obligations
Experience providing Home Study and Post-Release Services case management.
Excellent verbal and written communication skills
Proven ability to manage complex client situations centering client safety and child protection principles.
Experience analyzing data and writing reports.
Knowledge of federal, state, and local community social service systems as well as how to build a map of community referrals.
Demonstrated success working in a multi-cultural environment.
Self-starter with excellent problem-solving skills combined with the ability to prioritize duties and manage time effectively.
Proficient in Microsoft Office applications (Word, Excel, Outlook), Microsoft Teams, Zoom, and other platforms
Must be cleared and approved by Office of Refugee Resettlement and background check including FBI fingerprints and Child Abuse and Neglect checks required upon hire (initiated by IRC after acceptance of the position).
Working Environment: The Casework Supervisor provides virtual case management however they will be required to attend in person meetings at the discretion of the local office. A variable work schedule / hours including non-traditional hours such as evenings and weekends will be required to accommodate sponsors’ and children’s schedules.

Posted pay ranges apply to US-based candidates. Ranges are based on various factors including the labor market, job type, internal equity, and budget. Exact offers are calibrated by work location, individual candidate experience and skills relative to the defined job requirements.

Equal Opportunity Employer: We are an equal opportunity employer and value diversity at our company. We do not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, color, national origin, sex, gender, gender expression, sexual orientation, age, marital status, veteran status, or disability status. We will ensure that individuals with disabilities are provided reasonable accommodation to participate in the job application or interview process, to perform essential job functions, and to receive other benefits and privileges of employment. Please contact us to request accommodation.

US Benefits: The IRC offers a comprehensive and highly competitive set of benefits. All US employees are eligible for sick time, a 403b retirement savings plans: up to 4.5% immediately vested matching contribution, plus an 3-7% additional IRC contribution, and an Employee Assistance Program which is available to our staff and their families to support in times of crisis and mental health struggles.

In addition, full-time employees are eligible for 10 US paid holidays, 20-25 paid time off days, disability & life insurance, medical, dental, and vision insurance (employee contribution starting at $135, $7, and $5 per month respectively) and FSA for healthcare, childcare, and commuter costs. Part-time employees are eligible for a proportionate amount of paid time off. These additional benefits apply to employees who work at least 6 months within a 12-month time period.

