Under the supervision of the Protection Team Leader in Damaturu and the Head of Sub-Delegation, the Protection Field Officer contributes to the implementation and monitoring of ICRC protection activities.

Main Duties and Responsibilities

Contributes to the analysis of the security, socioeconomic, cultural, and political environment relevant to the ICRC, shares relevant information with team members and reports any change in the situation.
Contributes to the design and implementation of projects.
Analyses and contributes to written internal reporting and activity programming.
Helps to make internal and external meeting meaningful (through preparation, participation, reporting and follow-up).
Develops and maintains contact with the municipal/regional authorities, local/regional National Society branches, the local population, suppliers etc.
Fosters a conducive environment (multidisciplinary approach, good team dynamic) among team members.
Ensures the sustainability of their work and puts in place a system for archiving their work for the purposes of institutional memory.
Identifies possible protection concerns in the field and reports directly to the Protection Team Leader.
Monitors displacement and humanitarian needs of persons affected by Armed Conflict in AoR; and drafts analysis of the security, socio-economic, cultural, and political environment relevant to the ICRC, sharing relevant information with colleagues and reports any change in the situation as per the structure's communication flow.
Represents Protection and supports other departments (e.g., EcoSec, Wathab, Networking, Communication, Health etc.) upon needs and requests, in carrying out field activities in AoR and ensures administrative and financial follow up after field missions.
Ensures that all the information related to NIAC, and possible Protection concerns collected by the Generalist FOs or other relevant colleagues/interlocutors are shared with the Protection Team.
Monitors the humanitarian environment and needs, and analyses the security, socio-economic, cultural, and political environment as relevant to the ICRC. Shares relevant information with colleagues and reports any changes in the situation.
Contributes to build and consolidate ICRC’s contacts and networks with key interlocutors by expanding a multi-purpose network of interlocutors and keeps the contact list up to date.
Participates and represents the ICRC in internal and external meetings and develops and maintains contacts with municipal/regional authorities, local/regional Red Cross/Red Crescent Society branches, the population, and other relevant stakeholders.
Provides translations for the Protection Team Leader and other departments as requested.
Education and Experience Required

Bachelor’s degree in law, humanitarian affairs, or any other relevant field
Minimum 3 to 5 years working experience.
Working proficiency in English and Hausa compulsory – Kanuri or Fulani an asset
Computer literacy: Microsoft Office (Outlook, Excel, Word, PowerPoint), collaborative spaces
Knowledge of the cultural and socio-economic environment in Northern Nigeria
Applicants should have a Nigerian nationality or hold a working permit
Desired profile and Skills

Previous working experience with an INGO is an asset.

Experience with the Nigerian Red Cross Society is an asset.

Excellent planning and writing abilities

Respect for confidentiality levels.

GRADE: B2

