Who We Are

Founded in 2016, Amna is committed to supporting community and frontline workers to bring non-clinical mental health support to every child and family affected by violence and displacement. At Amna, our core values of respect, understanding, curiosity and connection guide everything we do, while shaping our culture and driving our mission. Our mission is to build community capacity for healing. Our vision is a world where refugees can determine their future unbounded by the impacts of conflict and displacement. After seven years of delivering direct services for families, young children, young people and men and women in Greece, Amna is now replicating its model to train frontline workers and support local organisations in additional countries and communities.

Safeguarding

The role-holder will have experience working according to ethical and good practice safeguarding principles. They will be expected to adhere to and promote Amna’s Child and Vulnerable Adult Safeguarding Policies as they will be involved and responsible for programmes working with children and vulnerable groups in different settings.

How Will You Make a Difference?

We’re looking for our first People and Culture Manager to play a central role in building an outstanding workplace culture for our talented, diverse and growing team.

The People and Culture Manager will be in charge of people and culture and safeguarding at Amna. The position will be responsible for ensuring sound and transparent people and culture management consistent with Amna framework and local legislation, and the implementation of Amna policies. This position will also act as safeguarding focal point and ensure adherence to safeguarding principles.

The People and Culture Manager will report to the Head of Operations and will be responsible for managing the Operations Officer.

Responsibilities include:

Recruitment and Retention:

Develop and implement recruitment and retention policy.
Prepare recruitment plans.
Oversee recruitment processes according to the needs of the organisation. Ensure transparent and inclusive processes.
Manage selection process for chosen candidates including reference checks, academic and experience certificates.
Plan and oversee onboarding processes for new colleagues.
Responsible for the induction schedule of new colleagues.
People and Culture:

Foster open communication and positive employee relations.
Responsible for the wellbeing strategy and continuous improvements.
Responsible for the Equity, Diversity and Inclusion policy and fostering an inclusive culture.
Responsible for embedding Amna’s values and culture in all aspects of Amna’s work.
Responsible for the performance management process.
Responsible for the reward and recognition principles update for the review and approval by the Board.
Responsible for job evaluation and ensuring that Amna’s pay is equitable and compatible.
Responsible for Pulse surveys and staff satisfaction and engagement surveys and recommending areas for development and improvement to the Senior Leadership Team.
Lead on internal communications in collaboration with the CEO and the Communications department.
Responsible for career development and succession planning in close collaboration with Senior Management Team.
Responsible for identifying and sourcing trainings and refresher trainings for all staff.
Policies and Compliance:

Responsible for updating the employees’ handbook.
Responsible for staying up to date on relevant legislation and implementing policies and procedures to ensure legal compliance in the different countries we operate/recruit along with Global payroll provider.
Oversee record keeping, whilst ensuring data security and confidentiality.
Safeguarding:

Monitor established Safeguarding policies and procedures.
Ensure timely reviews are carried out of Safeguarding policies.
Ensure safeguarding guidelines are followed.
Ensure all staff, partners and trainees are aware of Amna’s Safeguarding policies and procedures and act as the focal point for coordinating any investigation of any allegation or complaint.
Qualifications and Experience

At least 5 years of experience working in HR, preferably in the non-profit sector.
Recognised HR qualification.
Experience managing recruitment processes.
Experience working on safeguarding policies and guidelines for organisations that work with vulnerable people.
IT literate with a good working knowledge of Microsoft office.
Ability to work quickly, methodically, accurately, independently and to use initiative to problem solve proactively.
Methodical and organised with high attention to detail and accuracy.
Excellent time management skills and the ability to work under pressure to meet deadlines.
Ability to work with tact, diplomacy and complete confidentiality.
Excellent communication skills in English, both written and verbal, and ability to deal with a wide range of people at all levels.
Skills and Behaviours

Approachable and calm.
Flexible approach and ability to adapt to change in a growing organization.
Culturally sensitive and ability to adapt easily.
Able to work dynamically and respond quickly and appropriately to unexpected needs.
Able to take responsibility for assigned tasks and to respect processes and confidentiality.
Capacity to solve problems, to transfer knowledge and to develop new skills.
Enthusiastic with a desire to learn and develop.
Excellent team working skills.
Benefits:

See our wellbeing strategy: https://amna.org/wp-content/uploads/2024/03/Amna-Wellbeing-Strategy-February-2024.pdf

Work Location and Environment

This role is a remote job opportunity, and open to applicants in the UK, Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA).

Amna offers a hybrid working environment to its employees allowing for a blend of remote and in-person work.

Please note that the nature of working environment and hybrid schedule may be adjusted as per the organisation’s evolving needs.

Remuneration Package

Remuneration: 41,400 – 46,000 GBP per annum if based in the UK.

We recognise that cost of living and market conditions vary in different contexts, as such the final compensation package will be tailored to reflect the specific location and skill set of the successful candidate.

At Amna we are committed to attracting and retaining top talent by offering competitive compensation and benefit packages. We believe in rewarding talent and expertise at a level that corresponds with the local market conditions, ensuring that all our team members are fairly compensated for their skills and contributions.

In compliance with international standards, Amna utilizes a global payroll provider to ensure seamless and efficient compensation processes for our diverse team.

Commitment to Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion

Amna is committed to fostering a diverse and inclusive workplace where all employees are valued, respected, and empowered to contribute their unique perspectives and talents.

As an equal opportunity employer, we do not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, colour, ethnicity, sex, gender, sexual orientation, age, marital status or disabilities status.

Applications are strongly encouraged from people with personal or family lived experience as refugees or of displacement.

