Company Description

Are you excited to work with a mission-driven organization tackling global challenges? If so, then SNV, wants you on our team! Join us as a Compensation & Benefits Analyst and play a key role in attracting and retaining top talent across our global network.

fulltime, 40 hours a week
based in The Hague, the Netherlands
SNV is a mission-driven global development partner working in more than 20 countries across Africa and Asia. Building on 60 years of experience and grounded in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, we work on the core themes of gender equality and social inclusion, climate adaptation and mitigation, and strong institutions and effective governance. Together with our team of over 1,600 people, our mission is to strengthen capacities and catalyse partnerships that transform the agri-food, energy, and water systems, which enable sustainable and more equitable lives for all.

Our core values of people-centeredness and respect, equity and equality, and diversity and inclusion, are fundamental to who we are, and what we do. This is reflected in our vision and mission, and strategy, which sets out our aspirations and commitments as our compass towards 2030.

For more information on SNV, please refer to our website: www.snv.org

Note: For this role you need to be eligible to work in the Netherlands. SNV cannot sponsor for a work visa.

Job Description

Empowering Talent for Global Impact: Join our Global People Team's journey

Imagine a world where talented individuals from all over the globe are drawn to work that not only challenges them but also makes a real difference. A world where compensation reflects not just skills, but also the impact of the work being done. This is the world we're building at SNV.

Our Global People Team, led by the Global Head of People, consists of 14 Global HR professionals and 20 country HR Advisors. We are restructuring to better support these goals. To become fit for purpose, we focus on five key themes: attracting top talent, developing leaders and a strong culture, developing employee skills, rewarding, and recognizing our amazing team, and fostering a safe, inclusive, and well-being-focused environment.

Your impactful role at SNV: Compensation & Benefits Analyst

Within this dynamic team, you will play an essential role as our Compensation & Benefits Analyst. You will support the development, implementation, and maintenance of fair and competitive compensation and benefits frameworks. These frameworks will attract and retain the best talent while recognizing local markets and practices. This ensures our global team is empowered to achieve incredible things.

You will be part of our passionate Global Reward & Mobility Team, responsible for the Global framework on Reward & Mobility, and you will report to the Global Reward & Mobility Manager. Data analysis will be your superpower, allowing you to continuously improve our frameworks and ensure they remain competitive while reflecting the unique needs of our diverse workforce.

You will be a central figure in designing, configuring, rolling out, and supporting our new HRIS system. This game-changer will streamline processes and empower country teams. Imagine collaborating with colleagues across 20+ countries, helping them translate local context into technology-enabled solutions while fostering a strong sense of community.

In addition, you will directly support country HR teams with their reward structures, providing expert guidance on any C&B questions and issues that arise. You will analyze data and deliver analyses to support the development/enhancement of global compensation & benefits policies, processes, tools, and projects.

You collaborate with a wide range of stakeholders, including Country HR, Finance, the IT/HRIS Team, external compensation survey providers, and regulatory bodies. This collaboration will enable you to gather market data, benchmark compensation practices, and stay updated on industry trends and best practices.

In this role, your key responsibilities are:

Global Compensation & Benefits Champion: Support the rollout and implementation of global Compensation & Benefits policies, processes, and tools in our countries.
Contribute to HR Systems Development: Co-create the design and implementation of a new HR Information System, including its reporting functionality.
Gather Market Intelligence: Gather and compile market data on compensation and benefits practices for all positions and countries, utilizing market data and salary survey information from national, regional, and local sources.
Support Data-Driven Decisions: Co-develop HR data metrics and reporting and provide analytical support to empower data-driven decision-making within the People team.
Global Remuneration Benchmarking: Facilitate the remuneration benchmarking process globally, liaising with external data providers and participating in salary surveys.
Trusted Compensation & Benefits Resource: Act as the first point of contact for country HR, managers, and other stakeholders on compensation & benefits questions.
Job House Development: Further develop and maintain the job house database by preparing job descriptions, job analyses, job evaluations, and job classifications.
Data Accuracy Advocate: Organize and maintain employee data, ensuring it is consistently accurate and up-to-date.
Building Your Network: Build and maintain a network in the Sector and stay up-to-date on market movements and trends.
Qualifications

Your profile

Bachelor's degree in HR, Finance, or a related field
3-5 years of experience in Finance, Compensation & Benefits, or a similar role
Proven ability to leverage quantitative and analytical skills to gather, interpret, and translate data into actionable insights and reports
Demonstrated experience developing, implementing, and maintaining HR policies and procedures
Strong understanding of HR metrics, reporting mechanisms, and best practices
Working knowledge of job evaluation and analysis methodologies
Familiarity with various incentive and benefit programs to attract and retain top talent
Extensive knowledge of HRIS, MS Office, and expertise in Excel
Thrives in a collaborative environment, fostering effective communication within diverse, international, and remote teams
Excellent interpersonal skills and a high level of cultural sensitivity
Fluent in English, with French proficiency a plus
Additional Information

Contract Type: Full-time (40 hours),
Duty Station: The Hague, The Netherlands, Note: For this role you need to be eligible to work in the Netherlands. SNV cannot sponsor for a work visa.
Contract Duration: one year with possibility of extension based on performance
Expected Start Date: As soon as possible, preferably the of 1st July 2024
