Role: Program Associate.
Reporting to: Chief Program Officer
Location: Nairobi - Kenya

About Us

Our Strategy for delivering high-quality, cost-effective community health through and with digitally empowered, equipped, supplied, supervised, and compensated CHWs requires that we continuously re-invent the way we work. Innovating incessantly and with swift responsiveness to global trends is a critical success factor for building a thriving and sustainable LG of today and tomorrow.

Over the last four years, Living Goods has become a more complex organization with multiple implementation modes, exciting opportunities in new countries, and new partnerships in existing countries. Furthermore, while we have delivered some strong work in technology over the last couple of years, we now need to go the extra mile beyond technology and ensure a much greater emphasis on government partnerships in the broader digital health space. We can only do this by building a great place to work where our teams thrive, grow, and deliver extraordinary results.

Purpose of role:

The position will coordinate several cross-team activities to improve the operational effectiveness of the program shared service team vis a vis other departments and to maximize its impact on the organization goal.

Key Responsibilities:

Program coordination:

Coordinate Program Steering Committee- work plan development, agenda planning, scheduling, follow up on action items.
Coordinate quarterly program deep dive reviews and contribute to performance improvement-document feedback, track and follow up action items with country program teams.
Coordinate relevant Technical Working Groups - agenda planning, scheduling, follow-up on action items.
Contribute to streamlining the decision-making process by championing RAPID, driving its adoption and supporting its implementation through the Program Steer Co.
Ensure enhanced collaboration between Global program and Country program teams by fostering engagement.
Knowledge Management, research, and documentation:

Serve as Knowledge Management focal point for the Program Share Service team ensuring internal and external documents are properly stored, shared, and archived.
Contribute to development and operationalization of Knowledge management framework and drive adoption of knowledge management best practices and use of knowledge management tools.
Maintain and organize a central program documentation repository by keeping files up-to-date, accurate and appropriately stored.
Develop and edit briefings, memos, and presentations.
Coordinate for development and dissemination of periodic reports and analysis.
Organize and coordinate dissemination events whether internal or external.
Provide adhoc research support for the department.
Operational and Admin support:

Coordinate Program Shared Service team activities and provide administrative support to subunits (Program Strategy and Excellence, Global Health, Performance Evidence and Insights, Strategic Innovations).
Organize team meetings and retreats.
Plan and coordinate participatory workshops and meetings.
Plan and coordinate project implementation activities and field visits.
Plan and coordinate team travel.
Prepare expense reports, purchase orders, and other financial reports.
Qualifications & Experience Required

Diploma or bachelor’s degree in development studies, Community Health, Nursing, or related field and 4 to 6 years of relevant working experience.

Competencies & Attributes:

Must possess good interpersonal skills and the ability to handle and prevail in diverse situations and a sharp analytical focus to find solutions.
Effective written and verbal communication with the ability to engage various levels of technical and non-technical stakeholders for communicating, brainstorming, designing, and rollout digital health solutions and interventions.
Demonstrated ability to multi-task and thrive in a fast-paced dynamic and diverse environment and ability to work with limited information.
Strong command of written and spoken English with the ability to articulate views and ideas in a clear and precise manner across spoken and written modes of communication.
Expertise in MS Office tools such as Word and PowerPoint would be strongly preferred.
Demonstrated skills in planning, coordination, and monitoring.
Understanding of programming is a plus.
Bilingual in French is a plus.
What We Offer You at Living Goods:
Competitive Salary Package with Annual Review: We offer a competitive salary package with annual reviews to ensure that our employees are fairly compensated for their contributions.
Comprehensive Retirement Benefits: Living Goods provides pension schemes to help you plan for and secure your future, ensuring financial stability in your retirement years.
Private Medical Cover: You have the option to opt-in to a Private Medical Insurance scheme, providing thorough medical coverage and confidence in your health and well-being.
Life Assurance: We provide life assurance to give you peace of mind and protect your loved ones in case of the unexpected.
Parental Leave: Living Goods offers competitive parental leave schemes, ensuring you can spend quality time with your new bundle of joy. We offer 4 months of fully paid maternity leave and 4 weeks of paternity leave.
Annual Leave: Living Goods team members are eligible for 25 working days of paid annual leave.
Education Support: We support your continuous learning and development with education support to help you advance in your career.
Healthy Snacks and Fruits: Fruits are offered daily in the office to promote a healthy lifestyle and boost productivity.
Flexible Working Arrangements: Living Goods is a hybrid organization, offering flexibility for you to work where you need to be most productive.
Additional Perks: In addition to the above benefits, you will find a range of secondary perks depending on your location, to help you thrive at Living Goods.

Ready to Apply?
Applications for roles at Living Goods will be reviewed on a rolling basis. If you are interested, please submit your resume along with a cover letter (optional), highlighting how your experience demonstrates that you meet the requirements of the role.

We look forward to welcoming you to the Living Goods team!

Living Goods is an equal opportunity employer and will consider every qualified applicant for employment. Living Goods does not discriminate based on race, ethnicity, national origin, ancestry, religion, gender, sexual orientation or disability.

Our current job openings are displayed on our website, where you can search for open positions and apply directly. Living Goods does not offer any positions without an interview and never asks candidates for money. If you are asked for money, we strongly recommend that you do not respond and do not send money or personal information.
