Regional Program and Finance Coordinator ToGETHER
in Bonn
The position is to be filled as soon as possible, with a contract duration of three years. Employment location will be Bonn, Germany.
The ToGETHER program (Towards Greater Effectiveness and Timeliness in Humanitarian Emergency Response) aims to continue fostering localization of humanitarian action. In this program 40 local/national organizations from eight countries and four international organizations from Germany will continue working in close collaboration.
As Regional Program & Finance Coordinator you will be responsible for the management of quality, timeliness, and risks regarding programming, operations, MEAL, communication, advocacy, and finance workstreams of the ToGETHER Country Project Units and their work with Local Humanitarian Partners in Ethiopia and Pakistan. These responsibilities will be executed in close cooperation and collaboration with the respective Welthungerhilfe (WHH) country office management.
Your responsibilities
Coordination of WHH ToGETHER CPUs activities according to logframe, and orientation on templates, ToRs according to planned milestones, including monitoring of schedules and milestones
Coordination of partner engagement processes incl. review and follow up of results of the partner assessments in ToGETHER country projects, the timely implementation of the partner assessment
Assuring contract compliance and general compliance of Local Humanitarian Partners (LHP) in the respective countries
Assure guideline and process compliance, reporting quality, reporting timeliness and risk management on all operations
Organization of regional workshops/conferences to exchange best practices and innovative approaches of the program
Regular reporting on programming, operational, MEAL, communication, and advocacy work to ToGETHER PMU, respective WHH country management and to Welthungerhilfe line management
Support the operationalization of peer review mechanisms at consortium level, the development and operationalizing of a communication and visibility plan for the program, and the conception and operationalization of publications and media products
Identifying potential program risks, monitoring risks, and reporting regularly to the WHH country office management, ToGETHER PMU coordination, WHH line management and WHH risk management system
Manage the quality, timeliness and risks of financial resources and activities implemented by WHH ToGETHER and their local humanitarian partners in the respective countries
Coordinate work on all financial documents related to ToGETHER country projects including archiving of all partner related documents, reports etc. in the WHH project management & information system
Support in preparing and managing contracts, budgets and contracts and budget amendments with local humanitarian partners in line with internal and external standards
Review and analyse monthly budget monitoring reports for the respective countries as well as Coordination and quality assurance of budget planning
Ensuring the immediate implementation of the recommendations for external audits and supporting the implementation of future audits

Your profile
A university or college degree in a relevant field or an equal qualification corresponding to the position (including e.g. business administration and/or controlling)
A minimum of 3 years’ professional experience in working in humanitarian action including programmatic and financial management of projects
Experience in complex program management settings
Coordination experience in complex multi-country programmes
Experience in working with local partners in humanitarian contexts
Experience in humanitarian networking and positioning
Experience in capacity sharing
Excellent communication skills in a culturally diverse setting
Ability to work under pressure and willingness to frequently travel to areas with volatile local conditions
Excellent spoken and written English; German language skills are an asset

Our offer
We offer you the opportunity to work in a responsible and interesting field as part of an extremely dedicated team. Welthungerhilfe attaches great importance to the personal and professional development of its employees and the balance of their work and private life. This includes flexible working hours as well as working from home. Remuneration is based on our gender-independent salary scale. In addition, Welthungerhilfe offers numerous other benefits, which are listed under "Our benefits".
Please send your application via our online recruiting system by June 9, 2024.Your contact person is Nawid Ketabi. Welthungerhilfe is committed to fighting terrorism in all its activities. Accordingly, any applicant who is offered employment will be screened against lists of known and suspected terrorists.

      How to apply
      Please send your application via our online recruiting system by June 9, 2024.
    